To answer your question, firstly, China and the US are global superpowers. And because they are such powerful countries, their competition can have a massive effect on global politics. From my point of view, the first thing I can see that the rivalry between the two countries has been the most important event of all the global events in the 21st century that have shaped international circumstances and global situations. And if you look at a global level, we can see that the China-US rivalry has massively changed trade, technology, security and international relations. For example, because of the trade wars, back-to-back tariff increments and other technologically controlling situations of China and the US, we can see that the world market and economy has suffered instabilities. Furthermore, on the other hand, The increasing investments of the US and China has also developed advanced technologies such as telecommunications and artificial intelligence overtime. As I said earlier, we can also see quick instabilities in the world market. We can see both advantages and disadvantages. From a political perspective, people call the current world "multipolar", meaning it is not like the situation of the world around post-WW2 and Cold War era, where the world was "unipolar" or "bipolar". If we look at the world now, we can see that many countries need to have good relationships with both the US and China so that they can survive. If look especially look at developing countries, although they rely on China for business but also have to work with the US for security and global politics. This means countries have to still have to have relations with China but also not stay enemies with the US. If I were to look at this situation and analyze it, I still wonder if the current world is the "multipolar" like most people says it is. But set this aside for now. This rivalry is not only affecting the two countries, US and China, but is shaping the global political system as a whole. It has become worldly balancing rivalry as I see it. These are the things happening at a global level.
For the other question of if it has effects on myself, I think I would say yes, it has had effects on me. Firstly, the rivalry of the two countries has directly affected my personal political stances, thoughts and educational interests. As of currently, I'm a student studying the subject of Political Science. And because of it, I've studied and analyzed how big countries like the US and China has had ideological impacts on Myanmar, and how they are utilizing the country for their own goods. Notably, after the 2021 military coup, the US has supported this kind of "democracy" and "human rights" from all directions. Also on the other side, we can see that China prioritizes its stability and its global strategies for their own benefits. From my perspective, such ideologies of these influential countries will shape the future of Myanmar in one way or another. And because I'm a participant of the Spring Revolution, I've wondered how our small country, Myanmar will protect our national interests and serve the wants of our own citizens in the eyes and hands of such mighty nations. It's been a thinking point for me. And the one good thing I get from them when analyzing global political problems is that I learned that you can't just conclude "black" and "white", and/or "good" and "bad" in political situations. You need to take into account the influence, benefits and geopolitics; you must look at all these 3 angles. And this rivalry can taught me how to look at from such with many practical events.
In conclusion, China-US rivalry isn't just a problem and competition happening between 2 superpowers anymore; it has become an force that alters global politics, business and affected the lives of every person. And I can say that it also had massive effects on my life.